(dynamic music)
- [James] This is a Black
Nouveau web exclusive.
This is the final part
of our extended interview
with diversity trainer
and human rights
activist, Jane Elliott.
Today, most urban sectors,
especially Milwaukee,
remains hyper segregated,
why has it taken so long
or why doesn't it seem
like we can move the button
on diversity in neighborhoods?
- Because the people who have
the power in this country
are the people
who have the money
and the people
are going to decide
where people live,
you need to realize that
there are more children
attending segregated schools
in the United States today,
than there were previous to
Brown versus Board of Education
and that's a fact.
You need to realize that
it is not the intent
of white people to let
this situation change
in favor of anyone
but themselves
and right now, white people
are really frightened,
if you don't understand
the destruction
of Planned Parenthood Offices
and you don't understand the
wall, that we're going to build
on the southern border
of the United States,
you haven't read the book,
The Birth Dearth
by Ben Wattenberg,
Ben Wattenberg was a
brilliant Jewish man,
who was a member of the
American Enterprise Institute
and he wrote a book, the
first paragraph of which says,
"The main problem confronting
the United States today
"is there aren't
enough white babies
"being born in this country."
He was an advisor to presidents
of the United States,
he wrote the book
in 1987, he says,
"If we don't change this
and change it rapidly,
"white people will lose
their numerical majority
"in this country and
this will no longer
"be a white man's land."
Now, I'm not
misrepresenting this,
I'm telling you exactly,
almost exactly what he says,
he says, "There are three
things we can do to solve this,
"number one, we can pay
women to have babies,
"as they have been doing
"in Western European
nations for years,"
then he says, and these
are his words, not mine,
"Unfortunately, we would have
to pay women of all colors
"to have babies, so we
don't want to do that,"
he says, "the second
thing we could do
"is increase the number
of legal immigrants,
"that are allowed into
this country every year,"
then once again, he says,
"unfortunately the
vast majority of those
"willing to come to this country
today are people of color,
"so we don't want to do that,"
the third thing he says
and white women had better
pay attention to this,
"60% of the fetuses, that are
aborted every year are white,
"if we could keep
that 60% alive,
"that would solve
our birth dearth."
Does that sound
like racism to you?
And if it doesn't, I want
to know why it doesn't,
if it doesn't, you don't
understand what racism is
and I think it does.
When we close Planned
Parenthood Clinics,
because we think they're
there only for abortion,
we need to take another look,
they are used for
many, many, many things
and many women need the things
that they can get from
Planned Parenthood Clinics,
but we are willing to do
away with all that good
to avoid allowing white women
to have control of
their own bodies.
Now nobody had better
tell one of my daughters
or granddaughters what they
can do with their body,
you haven't that right.
Now, it would be interesting
if we were as concerned
about sperm cells, wouldn't it?
I mean, we could take
a whole lot of fun
out of you boys' lives.
- [James] Right, a lot of
people don't understand
the traumas associated
with race and racism,
can you talk a little
bit about the traumas
associated with it?
- The trauma associated with it?
- [James] Yes.
- One of the main traumas is
it tells white people,
that they are superior,
because of the lack of
melanin in their skin
and then they find out suddenly,
that we've got a
black President,
that's traumatic, that's
where their trauma is,
living a lie, finding out
the truth is traumatic,
finding out now, recently,
that within 30 years,
white people will be in
the numerical minority
in this country is
going to be traumatic
and that's the reason we
have to solve this problem
and we have to solve it now.
I will ask folks tonight,
how many of you black folks
wanna get even with
all white people
and that's what white
people are quite certain
blacks are gonna wanna do is
get even with all white people
and nobody ever
raised their hand
and then I'll say, how many
wanna get even with one or two,
every hand will go up (laughs)
and you know why and so do I,
white people are scared
to death right now,
particularly white males,
they're scared to death,
that they are going to lose
their power in the future
and they are, but if you wanna
get ready for the future,
if you wanna be treated
well in the future,
treat others well
in the present,
what we do in the present
constructs the future,
what we have done in the
past, we can learn from that
and we'd better learn from that,
those who forget the
mistakes of the past
are doomed to repeat them
and when you read this book,
you'll realize that that's
exactly what we're doing,
we're repeating the mistakes
that we have made in the past,
because we aren't teaching
about these mistakes
in the present, we are not
teaching history that is true,
we aren't teaching social
studies that is true,
we aren't even teaching true
geography, for God sake,
have ya seen the
Mercator map recently,
have ya seen that
great, big Greenland
hanging down the middle of
that map like a ripe plum
and have ya seen the
legend at the bottom,
that says South America
is actually nine times
larger than Greenland?
Were you aware of that?
Most of those watching this
program are not aware of that.
- [James] You mentioned
the wall several times
and at first we heard several
things about the wall first,
Mexico was gonna pay
for the wall and now--
- Yeah, but you need to know
that 70% of what Mister
Number 44 and a Half
said during that
campaign wasn't true
and the wall business
wasn't true either,
if his mouth is moving,
his lips are moving,
he's probably lying, you
know that as well as I do,
he doesn't intend
to build a wall,
we can't afford to
build that wall,
we have no business
building that wall,
we would be keeping
Americans out of America,
what's your question?
- [James] The question on
the wall is there's you know,
when you talk to
people about the wall,
to certain people
about the wall,
there's certain people for
it, certain people against it,
the people who are for
it, what's your mindset?
- They're scared, they're
afraid those people,
those immigrants are
gonna come over here
and take their jobs.
Let me tell you something,
you can build a wall,
you can build a
wall 50 feet tall
and smart Hispanics,
Latinos, smart Ecuadorians,
smart others are gonna
tunnel under that wall
and come up in their friend's
house on the other side,
you can build walls
until hell freezes over,
you will not keep that
immigration from happening
and you'd better
hope we don't keep
that immigration from
happening, we need those people,
do you know what will happen
to the economy of this country,
if we take all the people,
who are brown-skinned
immigrants out of this country,
if we send them back,
do you know what will
happen to our economy?
Do you know what will happen
to farming in California?
to the price of your fruit?
Do you know how hard it will
be to get a good avocado?
Do you have any idea
what will happen
to this country's economy,
if all those brown-skinned
people go back to Mexico?
I don't think we do,
I don't think people
have thought about that,
because they are being
taught not to think,
they are using a
language right now,
we are using a language, that
includes words like extremism
and ugly language about people,
who are different
from ourselves,
people who are listening
to those words,
they aren't listening to
the philosophy behind them,
they aren't listening
to the core principles,
which this person has none of.
- [James] Now, just a
couple more questions.
When we hear, when
I hear people say
that they're not racist
and things like that
and we talk about building
racial harmony in this country,
I don't think I'll
see it in my lifetime,
can you predict in a near
future, a far future,
when we will ever
have racial harmony
in this country?
- Oh yeah, in 30 years,
white people will have found
out that they have no choice,
but to get along with those
who are different
from themselves,
I'm not willing, I'd love
to wait, but I can't,
at my age, I'm not gonna
be here in 30 years,
but we could change this
situation, if we chose to.
During the second World
War, we called the Japanese
and you'll pardon me, but
this is what we called 'em,
slant-eyed little yellow,
- Hm-mm.
- we didn't say that
about the Germans.
After the war, we
rebuilt Germany and Japan
and we get along beautifully
with the Japanese,
that was in 1945, that
we finally won that war,
how many years ago was that?
Figure that out quickly.
- [James] I'm not a math person,
by the--
- You're not a math person,
but you know it wasn't that far,
- [James] Right.
- and it didn't
take 50 years for us
to have peace with the
Japanese and the Germans,
even though, even
though we dropped
two atomic bombs on Japan,
the Japanese hadn't
killed 10 million people,
nowhere near that, we didn't
drop any bombs on Germany,
any atomic bombs on Germany,
they were a different
kind of people,
we couldn't afford to do that,
we killed how many Japanese
people with two atomic bombs
and they forgave us, you
wanna talk about forgiveness?
You wanna talk about
changing this thing?
I cannot understand
how Japanese people
can stand the sight of
any of us and yet they do,
I cannot understand
why black people,
who have been subjected
to the ugliness,
that they've been subjected
to in this country
can get up every morning
and go to work among us
and not be absolutely furious
and I don't understand
why we allow
white people to behave
the way they do,
I don't understand that
and my third graders,
after they've gone
through the exercise
couldn't understand it
and wouldn't tolerate it
and when they went
up to junior high
and a junior high
teacher used the N word,
one of my former students said,
"If you're gonna use that word,
"I'm gonna go out in the
hall, until you stop using it,
"'cause we don't use that
word in this school,"
that was a sixth,
a seventh grader,
who told his teacher off,
when we have enough students,
who are willing to confront
people who are making
racist, sexist, ageist,
homophobic statements,
we're gonna be better off,
we have got to stop
tolerating the intolerable,
if it's intolerable
for my black cousins
and every black person on this
Earth is one of my cousins,
if it's intolerable for them,
it's intolerable for me,
I will not tolerate it,
that is not...
I am required not to tolerate
that kind of treatment
for the people who
are related to me
and that's every person
of the face of the Earth,
if your ignorance is such,
that you mistreat somebody,
because of your ignorance
about the color of their skin,
don't do it around me.
Number one, I've been threatened
with death lots of times,
now I say, go for it, fool,
my husband died four years ago,
being with him would not
be a bad thing for me,
death is not the worst thing
that can happen to you,
living a worthless, useless
life is much worse than dying.
(dynamic music)